Great,
so we build our component which uses props to get data from the parent,
we can then use it in a function as we do here.
Maybe it's a reusable component you want to use in multiple places and in each place, it gets different
data
but of course, the type of data should always be equal.
So here where we reverse the name, well this will not work if you pass in a number or a boolean,
it has to be a string
this component gets.
So in order to make sure we're not getting an error due to someone passing, let's say one in here, keep the
dynamic binding to pass a number instead of a string,
well that of course will break the application
as you can tell here because we can't use split on a number.
So in order to prevent this, we want to validate the props coming in and we can set up validation
here in this props array or in this props key here on our object. Props cannot only be an array, if
we want to validate it,
it should be an object
and there we have as a key or a property name, like my name
and then as a value, the type of that,
so that could be of type string to force it to be of type string.
You could also say it can be multiple types,
so since we basically only want to reverse it, you could also say this should be of type string
or array,
so by passing an array of types here,
you can say it can have multiple types, multiple types are valid, though
here I want to revert back to just using the string.
So with this, I'm making sure that I'm only getting the data I want to get,
now what happens if I set up the validation here and pass a one?
Now if I save this and I open the console and reload the page here,
you see now I'm getting a warning that the prop check did fail and the whole component is therefore
not attached like this.
So I'm still getting an error of course because what else should vuejs do,
it can't prevent me from typing a wrong code there.
But I do get such warnings at development time and thus I might recognize that somewhere,
I'm using the wrong property and by adding validation like this, I'm making sure that inside of this
component, I can be sure that I only get strings because otherwise, my application will throw an error
anyways and will give me at development time, a warning. When setting up the types of properties, you can
do even more than just setting type like this,
this could now also be an object where you set the type with the type key and you could also set required
to true to make sure this is a property which always is a string and it should always be available, it
should always be passed. If you don't set required,
it would be valid to use your component like this and to not pass this name. Well by setting required to
true,
you're making sure this component may only be used if this component or excuse me, if this property is
passed.
So that's an addition when setting a prop validation to make sure that your component definitely
has what it needs to run optimally,
you can also set a default value to make sure that
well you have something to work with.
Now of course default doesn't make sense together with required because how would you have a default if it's
required anyways,
the default would always get overwritten.
So default would be set to, in the case of a string, some string like Max
so that now if my remove this my name here and I'm not passing a property, I'm still getting Max passed
down there as you can see by the reverse name,
I'll revert this nonetheless.
And if you would have, let's say an object or array here,
so if you have type object let's say, it doesn't make sense here but if you would have this, well then
the default should always be a function which returns the object structure it should have or the default
object you want to use like name Max. Again, doesn't make sense for this use case but just to let you
know how that would look like, you would use such a function if that is of type object or array. For primitive
types like string, boolean and number,
so like string we used before, you set it directly to that value you want to use though.
This is how you validate props and how you make sure that the properties, the props you're working with
actually have the format
you need them to have.